# Handwritten Numeral Recognition integrating Start-End Points Measure with Convolutional Neural Network 
Convolutional neural network (CNN) based methods have succeeded for handwritten numeral recognition (HNR) applications. However, CNN seems to misclassify similarly shaped numerals (i.e., the silhouette of the numerals that look the same). This paper presents an enhanced HNR system to improve the classification accuracy of the similarly shaped handwritten numerals in-corporating the terminals points with CNN’s recognition, which can be utilized in various emerging applications related to language translation. In handwritten numerals, the terminal points (i.e., the start and end positions) are considered additional properties to discriminate between similarly shaped numerals. Start-End Writing Measure (SEWM) and its integration with CNN is the main contribution of this research. Traditionally, the classification outcome of a CNN-based system is considered according to the highest probability exposed for a particular numeral category. In the proposed system, along with such classification, its probability value (i.e., CNN’s confidence level) is also used as a regulating element. Parallel to CNN’s classification operation, SEWM measures the start-end points of the numeral image, suggesting the numeral category for which measured start-end points are found close to reference start-end points of the numeral class. Finally, the output label or system’s classification of the given numeral image is provided by comparing the confidence level with a predefined threshold value. SEWM-CNN is a suitable HNR method for Bengali and Devanagari numerals compared with other existing methods.
